The World Resources Institute (WRI) [Aqueduct 4.0](https://www.wri.org/data/aqueduct-global-maps-40-data) is the latest iteration of [WRI’s water risk framework](https://www.wri.org/data/aqueduct-water-risk-atlas) designed to translate complex 
hydrological data into intuitive indicators of water-related risk:

* **Water demand**: gross demand is the maximum potential water required to meet sectoral demands. Sectoral water demand includes: domestic, industrial, irrigation, and livestock. Demand is displayed as a flux (centimeters/year).

* **Water supply**: available blue water, the total amount of renewable freshwater available to a sub-basin with upstream consumption removed, includes surface flow, interflow, and groundwater recharge. Available blue water is displayed as a flux (centimeters/year).

* **Water stress**: an indicator of competition for water resources defined informally as the ratio of demand for water by human society divided by available water. It can be classified into six categories: -1: Arid and low water use, 0: Low (<10%), 1: Low-medium (10-20%), 2: Medium-high (20-40%), 3: High (40-80%), 4: Extremely high (>80%).

* **Water depletion**: the ratio of total water consumption to available renewable water supplies. Total water consumption includes domestic, industrial, irrigation, and livestock consumptive uses. Available renewable water supplies include the impact of upstream consumptive water users and large dams on downstream water availability. Higher values indicate larger impact on the local water supply and decreased water availability for downstream users. Water depletion is similar to water stress; however, instead of looking at total water demand, water depletion is calculated using consumptive withdrawal only. It can be classified into six categories: -1: Arid and low water use, 0 : Low (<5%), 1: Low-medium (5-25%), 2 : Medium-high (25-50%), 3: High (50-75%), 4 : Extremely high (>75%).

[Aqueduct 4.0 FAQ](https://github.com/wri/Aqueduct40/blob/master/data_FAQ.md) explains why the water supply and demand values are measured as fluxes instead of volumes. Volumes (cubic meters) can vary significantly based on the size of each sub-basin, potentially misleading as they might primarily reflect a larger geographical area rather than indicating a higher rate of water flow. On the other hand, fluxes (centimeters/year), which measure the rate of water flow, offer a more direct and equitable means of comparing water availability between different sub-basins. Volume = Flux x Area.

The spatial resolution is 5 × 5 arc minutes which equates roughly to 10 kilometer (km) × 10 km pixels. 
The future projections were created using CMIP6 climate forcings based on three future scenarios: optimistic (ssp126), business-as-usual (ssp370), and pessimistic (ssp585) available at [HYPFLOWSCI6](https://public.yoda.uu.nl/geo/UU01/YM7A5H.html). WRI's original data are presented at the HydroBASINS Level 6 scale. Indicators are available for periods: 'historical' (averaged over 1979-2019), 2030 (2015-2045), 2050 (2035-2065) and 2080 (2065-2095).